Configure the level of IPAM with UDNs (#1708)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/network/user-defined-network-segmentation.md

| JoinSubnets    | Subnet used inside the OVN network topology.  When omitted, this means no opinion and the platform is left to choose a reasonable default which is subject to change over time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Yes      |
| IPAMLifecycle  | Control IP addresses management lifecycle. When `Persistent` is specified it enable workloads have persistent IP addresses. For example: Virtual Machines will have the same IP addresses along their lifecycle (stop, start migration, reboots). Supported by Topology `Layer2` & `Localnet`.                                                                                                         | Yes      |

> | IPAMLevel      | Control how much of the IP configuration will be managed by OVN. Must be one of `Disabled`, `FullyManaged`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Yes      |

Reviewer: nit: We don't use the IPAM mode in OVN
```suggestion
| IPAMLevel      | Control how much of the IP configuration will be managed by OVN-Kubernetes. Must be one of `Disabled`, `FullyManaged`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Yes      |
```

- `Subnets` are mandatory for `Layer3` topology.
- `Localnet` topology is not supported for primary network.
- `IPAMLifecycle` is supported for `Layer2` and `Localnet` topology.

> - When `IPAMLevel` is `Disabled`, `Subnets` cannot be set. When it is `FullyManaged`, `Subnets` are required.

Author: I think so too - L3 has to do routing between nodes, and it could not do routing without subnet awareness.

    // 
    // For `Layer2` and `Localnet` topology types, the format should match standard CIDR notation, without
    // providing any host subnet mask.

>     // This field may be omitted for `Layer2` and `Localnet` topologies with `IPAMLevel` set to `Disabled`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // This field may be omitted for `Layer2` and `Localnet` topologies *only* when `IPAMLevel` is set to `Disabled`. 
```

    // Supported by Topology `Layer2` and `Localnet`.
    // +optional
    IPAMLifecycle NetworkIPAMLifecycle `json:"ipamLifecycle,omitempty"`
    
    // Control how much of the IP configuration will be managed by OVN.
    // When `FullyManaged`, OVN will apply IP configuration to the SDN infrastructure and it will also assign IPs from the selected subnet to the individual pods.

>     // When `Disabled`, OVN will only provide layer 2 communication, letting users configure IP addresses for the pods. `Disabled` is only available for `Layer2`

Reviewer 2: do we want to highlight which features the users would effectively opt-out of when they disable IPAM ? If I'm a clueless user, I would like to have that info shoved in my face before making what I think is an harmless choice. 

- IP spoofing protection
- namespace / pod selectors in multi-net policies

are the ones that immediately come to mind.

Author: I like that idea, I will add it

    // and `Localnet` topologies.
    // Defaults to `FullyManaged`.
    // +optional
    IPAMLevel NetworkIPAMLevel `json:"ipamLevel,omitempty"`
}
```
Suggested API validation rules:
- `Topology` and `Role` fields are mandatory.
- `Topology` can be one of `Layer2`, `Layer3`, `Localnet`.
- `Role` can be one of `Primary`, `Secondary`.
- `IPAMLifecycle` can be `Persistent`.

> * `IPAMLevel` can be `Disabled` only for `Layer2` and `Localnet` topologies, with `Subnets` unset. It can be `FullyManaged` only with set `Subnets`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `IPAMLevel` can be `Disabled` only on `Layer2` or `Localnet` topologies, where the `Subnets` parameter can be omitted. When set to `FullyManaged`, the `Subnets` attribute must be defined.
```

    // Supported by Topology `Layer2` and `Localnet`.
    // +optional
    IPAMLifecycle NetworkIPAMLifecycle `json:"ipamLifecycle,omitempty"`
    
    // Control how much of the IP configuration will be managed by OVN.
    // When `FullyManaged`, OVN-Kubernetes will apply IP configuration to the SDN infrastructure and it will also assign IPs from the selected subnet to the
    // individual pods.
    // When `Disabled`, OVN-Kubernetes will only provide layer 2 communication, letting users configure IP addresses for the pods. `Disabled` is only available
    // for `Layer2` and `Localnet` topologies. By disabling IPAM, you are also opting-out from features depending on it, e.g. IP spoof filtering and

>     // namespace/pod selectors in network policies.

Reviewer 2: it's described here. This is more accurate.

>     // namespace/pod selectors in network policies.

Reviewer 3: We only allow disabling IPAM option on secondary (non-primary) UDNs of types Layer2 and localnet. Currently supported features on secondary networks with ovn-k are
- e-w connectivity
- Port security (IP and MAC spoofing protection)
- multi-network-policy

When IPAM is disabled, the following feature subset won't work:
- IP spoofing protection
- multi-network-policy with namespace/pod selectors

Or what will still work:
- e-w connectivity (if you manage to correctly assign IPs)
- MAC spoofing protection
- multi-network-policies with ipBlock selectors

We have 3 options on documenting this:
1. List what is NOT supported with disabled IPAM. If we ever add a new feature for secondary networks and forget to update this list, it will be "automatically" supported from the CRD comment
2. List what IS supported with disabled IPAM. May be harder to understand the difference with managed IPAM if the user doesn't know the full list of features. On the bright side, any new features for secondary network are not "supported" until we update the comment.
3. Point to some external docs for more information on side-effect and feature support with disabled IPAM.

@trozet any preference on how we want to document this?

>     // namespace/pod selectors in network policies.

Reviewer 4: I would be more generic and say something like this: "By disabling IPAM, any Kubernetes features that rely on selecting pods by IP will no longer function (such as network policy, services, etc). Additionally, IP port security will also be disabled for interfaces attached this network."

    // Defaults to `FullyManaged`.
    // +optional
    IPAMLevel NetworkIPAMLevel `json:"ipamLevel,omitempty"`
}
```
Suggested API validation rules:
- `Topology` and `Role` fields are mandatory.
- `Topology` can be one of `Layer2`, `Layer3`, `Localnet`.
- `Role` can be one of `Primary`, `Secondary`.
- `IPAMLifecycle` can be `Persistent`.

> * `IPAMLevel` can be `Disabled` only on `Layer2` or `Localnet` topologies, where the `Subnets` parameter can be omitted. When set to `FullyManaged`, the `Subnets` attribute must be defined.

Reviewer 2: @npinaeva I think so - currently. 

Eventually, IIUC, we'd want secondary networks to work like this as well.
